Proposal for Panini - an Integrated Translation Management Application
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Synopsis: 
---------

Translation of free & open source applications - like free & open source
applications   themselves,    depend   on   the    whims   of   would-be
translators. There is a need for  an application that will both cater to
the need of individual translators to 'scratch their itch' and translate
as much as  they want of portions  they want and at the  same time allow
the application  developer to coordinate the efforts  of individuals and
maintain an adequate level of accuracy and consistency.

The  application  should cater  to  both  sporadic  or 'one-off'  online
translation efforts  and more consistent off-line efforts.  Thus it will
basically  be an  online web  based application,  but will  also support
offline contributions too.

In addition  the application  should build a  basic database  of strings
with  translations  in the  languages  catered  to  - and  offer  either
automatic translation of  strings already in the database,  or hints for
already translated strings.

The  application  should, at  a  later  stage  cater to  translation  of
documentation - which has to be served to the translator para or section
wise unlike translation of source which is served string by string. This
section  should   also  strip  all  HTML/XML  tags   when  offering  for
translation.

It goes  without saying  that the application  should be  free software,
multiplatform  and  multilingual.  It   is  also  clear  that  any  such
application has to be web based.

Existing efforts:
-----------------

We  have  investigated  Rosetta [https://launchpad.net/rosetta],  Pootle
[http://pootle.wordforge.org/]   and   Entrans  [http://entrans.sf.net].
Rosetta is proprietory software. Pootle,  written in python has the idea
correct, but it uses a  filesystem to store everything and probably wont
scale.  Entrans uses  PHP and  MySQL, which  we feel  are not  stable or
secure  enough  for  an  application  of  this nature  -  and  from  the
documentation does  not appear  to have the  comprehensive aims  of this
project. However elements  of it's user interface are  good and could be
incorporated into this project.

Platform:
---------

We propose using the Python  scripting language with PostgreSQL RDBMS as
a backend.  The  webserver will be Apache. We will  be using other tools
and frameworks not limited to  Django, Subversion and Trac for scripting
various parts  of the  project. Both Python  and PostgreSQL  are stable,
mature and inherently  secure and used worldwide on  an immense range of
products  and applications.   Further, Python  being an  easy  to master
scripting language, more non-technical people will be encouraged to hack
at and contribute to the project.

Workflow:
---------

The Application  developer registers an application and  uploads the POT
file.  He also  gives the file version. The  application will treat each
version of  the PO file as a  different file. The developer  may opt for
automatic translation,  in which case  all the strings available  in the
database will be  translated into all the languages  available and saved
as drafts.   Similarly, any translation  by a non  authorised translator
will also be  saved as drafts as and when they  are done. The developer,
and anyone authorised by him  can approve of drafts, wholly or partially
and merge them into the  official version. This official version will be
presented to  all translators who wish  to translate the  file wholly or
partially.

All translations  of strings in all  official versions will  be added to
the database.  In case of more than  one translation of a  string into a
given  lanuguage, all  translations  will be  added  and it  is left  to
individual developers to choose the one they want.

There will be  a facility for experts in  particular languages to review
the  database and  cull  out obviously  incorrect translations,  correct
spellings,  mark any one  translation as  'preferred' and  remove almost
identical duplic ates.

Translators will be  able to use the online interface  as well as upload
translations made offline. Submitting translations by email will also be
catered to, but this will not have an automatic interface. The developer
will have  to accept responsibility for accepting  email submissions and
the translator will  have to get the consent of  the developer to submit
by email.

Proposed Features:
------------------

Statistics:

The  application  will provide  detailed  statistics  of  the number  of
strings translated. This can also  be filtered according to the project,
language, translator as well as different project versions.

Merging Translations & Upstream Syncing:

There will be provison for merging translations done through independent
systems.  That will  avoid redundancy  and will  help in  making  use of
pre-existing translations.
The application  would allow syncing  of translated files  directly with
upstream CVS / SVN repositories.

Translation Memory:

The system  will never throw translations away.  All proposed, accepted,
rejected  translations will  be  perpetually kept  in  the database  for
future  reference. For example,  the system  would be  able to  show all
prior translations of a given string in any given language.

Online Review:

An system for reviewing the translations online will be present so as to
help  trusted reviewers  to  just login  to  the system  and review  the
translations.

Consistency Checking:

The  application  will  automatically   check  the  consistency  of  the
translations  and will  report errors  if any  for fixes.  In case  of a
broken translation,  the official version  will be switched to  the last
sane  translation until  the broken  [but  newer] version  is fixed  and
committed.

Version Control:

A basic form of  version control will be present in the  app. It will be
able  to track  translations of  the same  application  across different
versions   and  will   also  allow   merging  &   diffing   between  the
versions. Also, it will make sure translations are never lost.

Downloads:

Translators  will  be able  to  download  tarballs  of translated  files
according to projects, project versions and languages. This will help in
case they want to translate offline.

Translated UI:

The UI of the application  itself will be translated into various indian
langauges so  as to allow translators  use the application  in their own
native language.

Extensive Online Documentation:

Documentation  is very important  in a  project and  we will  provide an
extensive documentation  for the application  so that it's easy  for the
translators / admins to pick it up and start using.

Email Interface:

As already pointed  out, we intend to provide an  Email interface to the
application so  that authenticated translators  can recieve untranslated
strings and send translations by Email.

Web Services API:

The system would provide a Webservice API so that existing & new desktop
translation tools can plug into  the application via a plugin. This will
enable translators  to keep using their  tools but with  the Panini back
end.

Screenshot Gallery:

There will be a screenhot gallery which will have screenshots of various
translated applications to  inspire more people to join  the i18n / l10n
scene as  well as to  show the status  of translations for  a particular
language / project.

Schedule:
---------

We  will have  a  server up  and running  with  a basic  version of  the
application within a month of  starting the project. Working with active
developers and  translators, the application  will be fine-tuned  over a
period of 6 months to a year.

Proposed Roadmap:
-----------------

01 Month:
   * Database structure and translation user interface - basic functionality
   * One language
   * Beta 1 release
   * Service server on `at your own risk' basis

03 Months:
   * Complete admin and user interface added
   * Any number of languages
   * Service server updated

06 Months:
   * Handling of diffs, statistics, reports - complete functionality
   * Beta 2 release.
   * Service server in production - `at our risk basis'

08 Months:
   * Addition of email interface and interface for translation of documents
   * Bug fixes and UI translations into at least 3 languages.
   * First Release Candidate release.

10 Months:
   * Factoring
   * More UI Translations and documentation.
   * Second Release Candidate release.

11 Months:
   * Feature freeze.
   * Big fixes, UI translations.
   * More documentation.
   * Third Release Candidate release.

12 Months:
   * More bug fixing.
   * Clearing up Docs & UI translations.
   * First stable release.

The timeline is dependent on the  amount of response we get from testers
and and translators - features will be added and modified in response to
the feedback.

Commitment To Help Existing Language Teams:
-------------------------------------------

We are committed  towards helping existing language teams  in setting up
the application  for them and  provide all assistance to  them regarding
usage of  the application.  We have  at present talked  to four language
teams, namely  the Oriya (or)  language team's Gora Mohanty,  the Nepali
(np)  language team's Subir  B Pradhanang,  Gujarati (gu)  team's Kartik
Mistry & the Dzongkha (dz) team's  Pema Geyleg.  We'll work with them in
getting  the application  deployed for  them and  they will  help  us by
providing translations of the interface, bug reports & general feedback.

Funding:
--------

We are applying for two concurrent fellowships. We intend to develop the
application on  one hand, and,  at the same  time, set up a  service for
translators to use. The advantage of  having a live service would be for
active feedback for the  application developement process, thus ensuring
that the application does not wind up as academic vapourware.

1. We'll initially  require 6 months  funding to create  the application
   with the most important features.  Preferably we'd like to receive an
   additional 6 months of  funding to incorporate more advanced features
   like machine  translation and other nifty  things as well  as doing a
   lot  of bug  fixing, achieve  full UI  translations and  writing test
   cases, etc.
   
2. Hosting space with root  access along with Subversion, Python, Apache
   mod_python, PostgreSQL and a few GB of diskspace - we will either get
   hosted or will fund the hosting  out of the fellowship amount for the
   service server.

Developers:
-----------

The developers are:

1. Baishampayan Ghose: A Computer Sci. & Engg. Student & a Free Software
   developer. He is an experienced  Python developer and a active member
   of the  Free Software  community. He has  some i18n  experience while
   leading the Bengali translation  effort of Debian-Installer, Drupal &
   Django. He is also a member  of the Free Software Foundation of India
   working committee.
   Email - b.ghose@gnu.org.in

2. Kenneth  Gonsalves:  A  Free  &  Open  source  Developer.  Resume  is
   http://avsap.org.in
   Email - lawgon@thenilgiris.com

Other developers, contributors will be welcome to join the project which
will initially be hosted at panini.berlios.de
