Panini l10n Framework
---------------------
USE CASES:

1 Register Project (register_proj)
  ---------------------------
  Description: Developers register their projects for translation. This
  means that the developer furnishes details about the project and does
  an initial upload of the POT/PO file(s) into the system.

  Actors: Developer

  Assumptions: The developer is a registered user of the system and is
  already logged in.

  Steps: Developer clicks on `Register new project', furnishes meta-data
  about the project and uploads the POT file into the system. If
  the project already has some translations in a few languages, he
  selects the languages and uploads the corresponding PO files. He then
  provides a version number to the set of POT/PO files.

  Non-Functional: TODO

  Issues: TODO


2 Manage Translations (manage_trans)
  ----------------------------------
  Description: The project admin can view project statistics and check
  translation status. He can review translations and view / accept / reject
  recommendations made by untrusted translators. He can also upload
  newer versions of POT/PO files in different languages. If needed, he
  can download the translated files for upstream syncing.

  Actors: Developer/Project Admin

  Assumptions: The project is registered and has received some
  translations.

  Steps: Admin clicks on `Projects > Project_Name > Manage'. He can then
  view `Statistics', or incoming translations in different languages. To
  upload a newer version of POT/PO files, he clicks on
  `Upload_New_Version'. The process is similar to that during
  register_proj. He then increments the version of the POT/PO file set.

  Non-Functional: TODO

  Issues: TODO


3 Manage Users (manage_users)
  ---------------------------
  Description: The project admin can view the list of contributors to
  the his project. He can elevate the status of untrusted translators to
  trusted ones. He can add/delete translators, reviewers. He can also
  give translators/reviewers admim privileges after which they will
  become Project Admins.

  Actors: Developer/Project Admin

  Assumptions: The developer has admin privileges to the a registered
  project which has one or more contributors.

  Steps: Admin clicks on `Projects > Project_Name > Manage_Users'. He
  can then view the list of `Contributors' and their contributions. From
  and drop-down list, he can change the role/permission/status of the
  user. He can also add new users to the project.

  Non-Functional: TODO

  Issues: TODO


4 Translate (translate)
  ---------------------
  Description: The user can view current projects and can contribute
  translations to the project in his chosen language(s).

  Actors: Developer, Translator, Reviewer

  Assumptions: The actor is a registered user and there are one or more
  registered projects.

  Steps: The user clicks on `Projects' and views the list of projects he
  can contribute to. After selecting the project, the user selects his
  preferred language (defaults to that in his profile prefs) and gets
  some strings which he can translate. If he is untrusted, his
  translations don't get into the main version and go directly to the
  Reviewer/Admin. If he wishes to translate offline, there will be a way
  to download the POT/PO file and later upload them back.

  Non-Functional: TODO

  Issues: TODO

5 Review (review)
  ---------------
  Description: The reviewer reviews the list of translations and can
  approve/deny them.

  Actors: Reviewer

  Assumptions: The user is registered and is approved by the Project
  Admin as a Reviewer.

  Steps: The user clicks on `Projects' and can view the list of
  projects. After selecting the project, he will se the list of incoming
  translations which can be filtered wrt various parameters like date,
  status of user (trusted, untrusted), etc. Then he can either
  review online where he'll be able to approve/deny/recommend
  translations or he can also do it offline and later upload back. In
  the offline method, unchanged strings mean approval, empty strings
  will mean denial and fuzzy ones will mean recommendations.

  Non-Functional: TODO

  Issues: TODO

  

  
